House dust mites are microscopic arachnids that inhabit almost every environment populated by people.  They feed on dead human skin cells and are known to cause an allergic response in a significant portion of the population world-wide.  It is possible to cultivate dust mites at an industrial scale and to separate the resulting cultures into their body and fecal portions. 
One such process for doing so has been examined in detail using a series of statistical methods.  Principal component analysis followed by a series of model evaluation using least squares regression were used to isolate key variables and to build a fitted multivariate multiple regression model.  This model simultaneously predicts the expected output for body and fecal portions from one full run of the process examined based on input values for selected predictor variables.
One such process for doing so has been examined in detail using principal component analysis and multiple multivariate regression.  Principal component analysis utilizes the covariance structure between all chosen predictor variables to create a new coordinate system within the coordinate space described by the predictor variables which describes the variability within the provided dataset most efficiently.  This new coordinate system is described by the principal component or coordinate vectors that result from the principal component analysis.  Examination of both the principal components that describe the largest proportion of the variability amongst the data and the predictor variables which most strongly influence those principal components the predictor variables most valuable in predicting body and fecal yields can be identified.  
The variables selected based on the principal component analysis were then used to create second order multiple multivariate regression models based on the ordinary least squares approach.  Backwards selection was used on the full second order regression models to identify a best fitting model.  In this approach the first order and quadratic terms and second order interactions between all predictor variables are considered.  At each stage in backwards selection the least useful predictor variables are removed from the model until model with best fit is identified.  The resulting models are then mathematically optimized to determine the values of the predictor variables which are most likely to maximize the resulting yields.
Two species were examined in this analysis.  For the first species 4 predictor variables were included in the final model – max CO2 during cultivation, number of containers processed, post processing moisture during separation, and exhaust temperature of the involved equipment during separation.  The final resulting equations for the body and fecal portions of the processed material are
